# Basic JavaScript-rendered Hello World

## ðŸ“ Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/01.md`

DOM represents the page so programs can change the doc structure, style, and content
- Represented as nodes and objects
- Can be displayed in the browser or as an html source
- Can be modified with a scripting language (ex: javascript)
- The DOM is not a language, but a structure of objects that the javascript interacts with an modifies. It was designed to be independent of any particular programming language. A structural representation.
- HTML code -> Browser generates DOM -> exposes DOM to javascript
- Long ago JavaScript was added directly on top of HTML on the server -> modern JavaScript frameworks programmatically create the DOM instead of hand-defining it in HTML

* to add the id: <div id="root">
* the <script type="module"> "causes the code to be treated as a javascript module" and the processing of the contents is 'deffered'. Depends on import and export statements. 

- Shift + CTRL + J opens dev tools in chrome
- Elements tab is useful for seeing the html
- You can get the DOM body in JavaScript with document.body
- In his solution, he puts the script tag AFTER the root div instead of IN it. Not sure if/how this is important down the line
- He also uses const instead of let, which makes sense because we never have to modify these in this example. Probably a good habit to get into
- Until we actually append, the element is just existing in memory. Append puts it into the actual DOM
- In the extra credit, I didn't need to add the id and then getElementById because I already had the element as a variable I created. Oops.
- NOTE: leaving my original solution the same for reference sake
- rootElement.setAttribute('id', 'root') ... an example for what setting an attribute looks like. First param is attr name, second is value (I assume)

## Background

It doesn't take long to learn how to make "Hello World" appear on the page with
HTML:

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <div>Hello World</div>
  </body>
</html>
```

The browser takes this HTML code and generates
[the DOM (the Document Object Model)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)
out of it. The browser then exposes the DOM to JavaScript so you can interact
with it to add a layer of interactivity to your web-page.

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <div>Hello World</div>
    <script type="module">
      // your JavaScript here
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

Years ago, people were generating HTML on the server and then adding JavaScript
on top of that generated HTML for interactivity. However, as requirements for
that interactivity became more challenging, this approach produced applications
that were difficult to maintain and had performance issues.

So modern JavaScript frameworks were created to address some of the challenges
by programmatically creating the DOM rather than defining it in hand-written
HTML.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/01.html)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.html)

It's important to have a basic understanding of how to generate and interact
with DOM nodes using JavaScript because it will help you understand how React
works under the hood a little better. So in this exercise we're actually not
going to use React at all. Instead we're going to use JavaScript to create a
`div` DOM node with the text "Hello World" and insert that DOM node into the
document.

## Extra Credit

### 1. ðŸ’¯ generate the root node

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.extra-1.html)

Rather than having the `root` node in the HTML, see if you can create that one
using JavaScript as well.

## ðŸ¦‰ Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=01%3A%20Basic%20JavaScript-rendered%20Hello%20World&em=chris.g.peabody%40gmail.com).
