# Using JSX

## ðŸ“ Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/03.md`

* Using JSX mean you have to have a compiler, since JSX is not JavaScript. One such compiler is Babel
* You can use a REPL to see how JSX gets converted to JavaScript
* You can make babel compile a script by changing the type from module to 'text/babel'
* Interpolation -> "the insertion of something of a different nature into something else" (using the ${stuff like this})
* The key to extra credit 2 was "destructuring" the props object! I looked at the 'javascript to know for react' page to help figure it out
* You CAN run babel in the browser, but in production environments you'd precompile it and only ship the compiled version
* compiled version of code shows up in the head tag in the dev tools
* interesting explanation of 'html land', 'css land', 'javascript land', and 'string land'. JSX land is the open <>. ${} is putting javascript land inside string land. Similar to how <script></script> enters javascript land inside html land
* in a 'template literal' string, you need the $, but in JSX you don't need the $. I DIDN'T KNOW AT FIRST, ended up fixing by extra creds though
* You CANNOT put statements inside the JSX {}, only expressions. It wouldn't make sense to put an if statement as the children variable for example
* Statement -> Some imperative logic
* Expression -> evaluates to a value
* (You can do a ternary inside JSX interpolation, because it's technically an expression)
* position matters in a spread {...props}. If something in the spread conflicts with something defined explicitly, the further to the right will win. You can use this to implement default values!
* You can't do a self closing div in raw HTML (<div />). But you can in JSX!

## Background

JSX is more intuitive than the raw React API and is easier to understand when
reading the code. It's fairly simple HTML-like syntactic sugar on top of the raw
React APIs:

```jsx
const ui = <h1 id="greeting">Hey there</h1>

// â†“ â†“ â†“ â†“ compiles to â†“ â†“ â†“ â†“

const ui = React.createElement('h1', {id: 'greeting', children: 'Hey there'})
```

Because JSX is not actually JavaScript, you have to convert it using something
called a code compiler. [Babel](https://babeljs.io) is one such tool.

ðŸ¦‰ Pro tip: If you'd like to see how JSX gets compiled to JavaScript,
[check out the online babel REPL here](https://babeljs.io/repl#?builtIns=App&code_lz=MYewdgzgLgBArgSxgXhgHgCYIG4D40QAOAhmLgBICmANtSGgPRGm7rNkDqIATtRo-3wMseAFBA&presets=react&prettier=true).

If you can train your brain to look at JSX and see the compiled version of that
code, you'll be MUCH more effective at reading and using it! I strongly
recommend you give this some intentional practice.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/03.html)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.html)

Normally you'll compile all of your code at build-time before you ship your
application to the browser, but because Babel is written in JavaScript we can
actually run it _in_ the browser to compile our code on the fly and that's what
we'll do in this exercise.

So we'll include a script tag for Babel, then we'll update our own script tag to
tell Babel to compile it for us on the fly. When you're done, you should notice
the compiled version of the code appears in the `<head>` of the DOM (which you
can inspect using DevTools).

## Extra Credit

### 1. ðŸ’¯ interpolate className and children

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.extra-1.html)

"Interpolation" is defined as "the insertion of something of a different nature
into something else."

Let's take template literals for example:

```javascript
const greeting = 'Sup'
const subject = 'World'
const message = `${greeting} ${subject}`
```

See if you can figure out how to extract the `className` (`"container"`) and
`children` (`"Hello World"`) to variables and interpolate them in the JSX.

```jsx
const className = 'container'
const children = 'Hello World'
const element = <div className="hmmm">how do I make this work?</div>
```

ðŸ“œ The react docs for JSX are pretty good:
https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html

Here are a few sections of particular interest for this extra credit:

- [https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#embedding-expressions-in-jsx](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#embedding-expressions-in-jsx)
- [https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#specifying-attributes-with-jsx](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#specifying-attributes-with-jsx)

### 2. ðŸ’¯ spread props

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.extra-2.html)

What if I have an object of props that I want applied to the `div` like this:

```jsx
const children = 'Hello World'
const className = 'container'
const props = {children, className}
const element = <div /> // how do I apply props to this div?
```

If we were doing raw React APIs it would be:

```jsx
const element = React.createElement('div', props)
```

Or, it could be written like this:

```jsx
const element = React.createElement('div', {...props})
```

See if you can figure out how to make that work with JSX.

ðŸ“œ https://reactjs.org/docs/jsx-in-depth.html#spread-attributes

## ðŸ¦‰ Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=03%3A%20Using%20JSX&em=chris.g.peabody%40gmail.com).
