# Forms

## 📝 Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/06.md`

- Attach a submit handler with onSubmit prop
- Handler is called with a "target" which is a reference to a <form> DOM node
- The <form> DOM node has a reference tothe elements of the form, which have the values
- Ways of getting the value
   - Via their index: event.target.elements[0].value
   - Via the elements object by name or id attribute: event.target.elements.usernameInput.value
   - Via a 'ref' in React: An object that stays consistent between renders of your React component. Has 'current' property on it which can be updated at any time. Can pass a ref to a React element and React will set the 'current' property to the DOM node that's rendered. (React.useRef)
- The 'htmlFor' prop on the label associates it with an input id. Not sure the importance yet
- We added a function INSIDE of a component. This is probably how we do 'class-like' stuff in React
- 'export default App' at the bottom. Sneaking in some future learnings

* to clarify about refs: If you pass the ref object YOU MADE to a React element via it's 'ref' prop, then you can reference that React element via the ref object you made.
* React.useState accepts an initial value, returns an array that can be destructured into the state and the state updater function.

- default behavior of the browser on submit is to make a GET request to the same page with the form fields as query params
- a SyntheticEvent is a fake event that react uses, but it behaves just like a native event. You can get the native evetn with event.nativeEvent
- if you console.log a DOM node it will show the nodes. But if you use console.dir, you'll see all the properties of the DOM node
- using event.target[i] is not very resillient if you end up putting a new form field in it can change the indexes. It's based on order in the form. Instead you can use event.target.elements.idOrNameOfTheElementWeWant
- Screen readers need the label to be associated to input, and also you need to associate it so the input gets focused if you click on the label
- Doesn't appear that you need to pass null in to useRef, that is the default (this is maybe not true??? maybe it sets to undefined if not given?)
- Kent recommends using IDs to refer to the inputs rather than refs in most cases, but there will be reasons to maybe do this later
- Why did we assign value using brackets like this? const {value} = event.target. Is it because 'value' is a prop on that component already?
- He type casted 'error' with 'Boolean(error)' to make it more explicit. Any technical changes to behavior here?
- More on these hooks later in the hooks course.
- He set the default username to an empty string. Makes more sense than null.
- After setting up the username useState hook, he replaced the onSubmit functionality to refer to the hook instead of trying to find the input manually
- defaultValue can be used in a field to set the starting fill text

## Background

In React, there actually aren't a ton of things you have to learn to interact
with forms beyond what you can do with regular DOM APIs and JavaScript. Which I
think is pretty awesome.

You can attach a submit handler to a form element with the `onSubmit` prop. This
will be called with the submit event which has a `target`. That `target` is a
reference to the `<form>` DOM node which has a reference to the elements of the
form which can be used to get the values out of the form!

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/06.js)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/06.js)

In this exercise, we have a form where you can submit a username and then you'll
get an "alert" showing what you typed.

🦉 There are several ways to get the value of the name input:

- Via their index: `event.target.elements[0].value`
- Via the elements object by their `name` or `id` attribute:
  `event.target.elements.usernameInput.value`
- There's another that I'll save for the extra credit

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 using refs

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/06.extra-1.js)

Another way to get the value is via a `ref` in React. A `ref` is an object that
stays consistent between renders of your React component. It has a `current`
property on it which can be updated to any value at any time. In the case of
interacting with DOM nodes, you can pass a `ref` to a React element and React
will set the `current` property to the DOM node that's rendered.

So if you create an `inputRef` object via `React.useRef`, you could access the
value via: `inputRef.current.value`
(📜https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#useref)

Try to get the usernameInput's value using a ref.

### 2. 💯 Validate lower-case

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/06.extra-2.js)

With React, the way you use state is via a special "hook" called `useState`.
Here's a simple example of what that looks like:

```jsx
function Counter() {
  const [count, setCount] = React.useState(0)
  const increment = () => setCount(count + 1)
  return <button onClick={increment}>{count}</button>
}
```

`React.useState` accepts a default initial value and returns an array. Typically
you'll destructure that array to get the state and a state updater function.

📜 https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html

In this extra credit, we're going to say that this username input only accepts
lower-case characters. So if someone types an upper-case character, that's
invalid input and we'll show an error message.

If we want our form to be dynamic, we'll need a few things:

1. Component state to store the dynamic values (an error message in our case)
2. A change handler on the input so we know what the value is as the user
   changes it and can update the error state.

Once we have that wired up then we can render the error message and disable the
submit button if there's an error.

💰 This one's a little more tricky, so here are a few things you need to do to
make this work:

1. Create a `handleChange` function that accepts the change `event` and uses
   `event.target.value` to get the value of the input. Remember this event will
   be triggered on the input, not the form.
2. Use the value of the input to determine whether there's an error. There's an
   error if the user typed any upper-case characters. You can check this really
   easily via `const isValid = value === value.toLowerCase()`
3. If there's an error, set the error state to `'Username must be lower case'`.
   (💰 here's how you do that:
   `setError(isValid ? null : 'Username must be lower case')`) and disable the
   submit button.
4. Finally, display the error in an element

You may consider adding a `role="alert"` to the element you use to display the
error to assist with screen reader users.

Make sure you pass `handleChange` to the `onChange` handler of the `input`.

### 3. 💯 Control the input value

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/06.extra-3.js)

Sometimes you have form inputs which you want to programmatically control. Maybe
you want to set their value explicitly when the user clicks a button, or maybe
you want to change what the value is as the user is typing.

This is why React supports Controlled Form inputs. So far in our exercises, all
of the form inputs have been "uncontrolled" which means that the browser is
maintaining the state of the input by itself and we can be notified of changes
and "query" for the value from the DOM node.

If we want to explicitly update that value we could do this:
`inputNode.value = 'whatever'` but that's pretty imperative. Instead, React
allows us to programmatically set the `value` prop on the input like so:

```jsx
<input value={myInputValue} />
```

Once we do that, React ensures that the value of that input can never differ
from the value of the `myInputValue` variable.

Typically you'll want to provide an `onChange` handler as well so you can be
made aware of "suggested changes" to the input's value (where React is basically
saying "if I were controlling this value, here's what I would do, but you do
whatever you want with this").

Typically you'll want to store the input's value in a state variable (via
`React.useState`) and then the `onChange` handler will call the state updater to
keep that value up-to-date.

Wouldn't it be even cooler if instead of showing an error message we just didn't
allow the user to enter invalid input? Yeah! In this extra credit I've backed us up
and removed the error stuff and now we're going to control the input state and
control the input value. Anytime there's a change we'll call `.toLowerCase()` on
the value to ensure that it's always the lower case version of what the user
types.

So we can get rid of our `error` state and instead we'll manage state called
`username` (with `React.useState`) and we'll set the `username` to whatever the
input value is. We'll just lowercase the input value before doing so. Then we'll
pass that value to the `input`'s `value` prop and now it's impossible for users
to enter an invalid value!

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=06%3A%20Forms&em=chris.g.peabody%40gmail.com).
